apps/docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Papra documentation
description: Papra documentation.
hero:
  title: Papra Docs
  tagline: Documentation for Papra, the minimalistic document archiving platform.
  image:
    alt: A glittering, brightly colored logo
    dark: ../../assets/logo-dark.svg
    light: ../../assets/logo-light.svg
  actions:
    - text: Self-hosting guide
      link: /self-hosting/using-docker
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary

---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';


Welcome to the official documentation of Papra, an intuitive open-source document management and archiving platform. It is designed to be simple to use and accessible to everyone. Papra is a plateform for long-term document storage and management, like a digital archive for your documents.

Papra can be used in two different ways:

- As a **self-hosted solution**, using the fully packaged lightweight [Docker image](/self-hosting/using-docker).
- As a **fully managed solution**, using our cloud service available on [papra.app](https://papra.app).

<div style="margin-top: 40px">
<LinkCard
title="Get started" 
description="Learn how to self-host Papra using Docker."
href="/self-hosting/using-docker"
/>
</div>

## Why Papra?

In today's digital world, managing countless important documents efficiently and securely has become crucial. Papra helps you effortlessly keep track of everything from personal files to critical business records, providing peace of mind and enhancing productivity through a robust yet user-friendly system.

## Features

- **Document management**: Upload, store, and manage your documents in one place.
- **Organizations**: Create organizations to manage documents with family, friends, or colleagues.
- **Search**: Quickly search for documents with full-text search.
- **Authentication**: User accounts and authentication.
- **Dark Mode**: A dark theme for those late-night document management sessions.
- **Responsive Design**: Works on all devices, from desktops to mobile phones.
- **Open Source**: The project is open-source and free to use.
- **Self-hosting**: Host your own instance of Papra using Docker or other methods.
- **Tags**: Organize your documents with tags.
- **Email ingestion**: Send/forward emails to a generated address to automatically import documents.
- **Content extraction**: Automatically extract text from images or scanned documents for search.
- **i18n**: Support for multiple languages.
- *Coming soon:* **Tagging Rules**: Automatically tag documents based on custom rules.
- *Coming soon:* **Folder ingestion**: Automatically import documents from a folder.
- *Coming soon:* **SDK and API**: Build your own applications on top of Papra.
- *Coming soon:* **CLI**: Manage your documents from the command line.
- *Coming soon:* **Document sharing**: Share documents with others.

## Community & Open Source

Papra is proudly open-source under the [AGPL3](https://github.com/papra-hq/papra/blob/main/LICENSE) license. You can contribute to the project by reporting issues, suggesting features, or even contributing code.



<div style="margin-top: 40px">
<LinkCard
title="Get started" 
description="Learn how to self-host Papra using Docker."
href="/self-hosting/using-docker"
/>
</div>

Commit message:

docs(readme): update i18n status and add document requests feature (#186)

apps/docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Papra documentation
description: Papra documentation.
hero:
  title: Papra Docs
  tagline: Documentation for Papra, the minimalistic document archiving platform.
  image:
    alt: A glittering, brightly colored logo
    dark: ../../assets/logo-dark.svg
    light: ../../assets/logo-light.svg
  actions:
    - text: Self-hosting guide
      link: /self-hosting/using-docker
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary

---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';


Welcome to the official documentation of Papra, an intuitive open-source document management and archiving platform. It is designed to be simple to use and accessible to everyone. Papra is a plateform for long-term document storage and management, like a digital archive for your documents.

Papra can be used in two different ways:

- As a **self-hosted solution**, using the fully packaged lightweight [Docker image](/self-hosting/using-docker).
- As a **fully managed solution**, using our cloud service available on [papra.app](https://papra.app).

<div style="margin-top: 40px">
<LinkCard
title="Get started" 
description="Learn how to self-host Papra using Docker."
href="/self-hosting/using-docker"
/>
</div>

## Why Papra?

In today's digital world, managing countless important documents efficiently and securely has become crucial. Papra helps you effortlessly keep track of everything from personal files to critical business records, providing peace of mind and enhancing productivity through a robust yet user-friendly system.

## Features

- **Document management**: Upload, store, and manage your documents in one place.
- **Organizations**: Create organizations to manage documents with family, friends, or colleagues.
- **Search**: Quickly search for documents with full-text search.
- **Authentication**: User accounts and authentication.
- **Dark Mode**: A dark theme for those late-night document management sessions.
- **Responsive Design**: Works on all devices, from desktops to mobile phones.
- **Open Source**: The project is open-source and free to use.
- **Self-hosting**: Host your own instance of Papra using Docker or other methods.
- **Tags**: Organize your documents with tags.
- **Email ingestion**: Send/forward emails to a generated address to automatically import documents.
- **Content extraction**: Automatically extract text from images or scanned documents for search.
- *In progress:* **i18n**: Support for multiple languages.
- *Coming soon:* **Tagging Rules**: Automatically tag documents based on custom rules.
- *Coming soon:* **Folder ingestion**: Automatically import documents from a folder.
- *Coming soon:* **SDK and API**: Build your own applications on top of Papra.
- *Coming soon:* **CLI**: Manage your documents from the command line.
- *Coming soon:* **Document sharing**: Share documents with others.
- *Coming soon:* **Document requests**: Generate upload links for people to add documents.

## Community & Open Source

Papra is proudly open-source under the [AGPL3](https://github.com/papra-hq/papra/blob/main/LICENSE) license. You can contribute to the project by reporting issues, suggesting features, or even contributing code.



<div style="margin-top: 40px">
<LinkCard
title="Get started" 
description="Learn how to self-host Papra using Docker."
href="/self-hosting/using-docker"
/>
</div>
